Data versioning is essential in modern machine learning 
workflows, addressing challenges like reproducibility, 
collaboration, and scalability. Implementing data versioning 
systems (DVS) helps teams manage datasets efficiently, 
ensuring consistency and traceability. Tools like Git LFS, 
Dolt, and DVC showcase different approaches to version 
control, highlighting trade-offs in data management, 
performance, and scalability.
\\\\
Challenges persist despite advancements. Centralized systems 
face scalability issues and single points of failure, while 
distributed systems must handle large, changing datasets 
efficiently. Tools like Git LFS struggle with large binary 
files, Dolt is limited to structured data, and DVC, while 
beneficial for data scientists, lacks support for relational 
databases.
\\\\
Future research in data versioning will focus on handling 
large, frequently updated datasets, particularly in fields 
like computer vision, genomics, and IoT. Additionally, 
hybrid systems are needed to manage both relational and 
non-relational data for diverse machine learning workflows.
\\\\
Addressing these challenges will help data versioning systems 
evolve, solidifying their role in machine learning 
architecture. This will enhance the efficiency, reliability, 
and reproducibility of pipelines, while fostering greater 
collaboration in the AI and data science community.
