\paragraph{Dolt}
Dolt is a version-controlled SQL database and as such it may serve as an example
of a centralised DVS. Analogous to Git, one can track schemas and changes in the
database, create and merge branches \cite{dolt-reproducibility}. Under the hood,
Dolt uses Prolly trees - a data structure related to both B-trees
\cite{prolly-trees}, commonly used in RDBMS and Merkle trees (used by
distributed version control systems such as Git or Mercurial)\cite{comparison}.
This data structure provides both fast performance (including diffs and merges)
and efficient storage management (each portion of data shared between trees is
shared only once). However, like other RDBMS, while Dolt may be the ideal
solution for structured data, it is not suitable for unstructed data.
\begin{comment}
    version controlled SQL DB; suitable for data stored in RDBMS (such as MySQL,
although there appears to be a postgres version as well) usage of prolly trees
(merge of B-tree (indices of RDBMS, performance of databases) and Merkle tree
(structure used in git)) = data is saved in accordance to hash (easier
identification whether file changed, better diff / merge);not suitable for
unstructured data, nor high performance; centralised; tracking of schemas and
changes in the database ;(source: github read me file);
https://docs.dolthub.com/introduction/use-cases = overview of usecases not great
for unstructured binary files; can effectively serve to replace databases;
support merging, branching and other typical git stuff;
\end{comment}